No. Why does it not work? There we
go. Okay. So the reason why we're taking
a break from our usual web development, React,
etcetera, content is because you guys might be
starting your project soon. The skeleton is released.
There's nothing stopping you guys from continuing to
work, although there are a few things related
to Auth in the skeleton that we haven't
covered yet. We'll cover that on Monday. But
just in case you guys are starting to
code, we want to give you a brief
rundown on how to use git when you're
collaborating with your team on your project, because
this is going to be very important. I'm
going to speed through this stuff just a
little bit. We're not gonna go through many
examples, but the slides are here. We also
wrote really nice speaker notes in the slides
so that later on, when you're working on
your projects, you can go through the slides
and just use them as a reference for
how to do things as you're collaborating with
your team. Because git can get kinda messy
sometimes, so we wanna show you all the
best practices for when you're doing Git. So
what we're going to go over today is
we'll re go over some of the stuff
we talked about at the very beginning of
the class about how to make commits and
how to branch. And then we'll talk more
about merging and merge conflicts, you will probably
encounter a lot as you're working. And then
finally, we'll dive more into the details of
how remote Git works. So let's recall how
we make commits in Git. So as we
recall, a commit is basically just like a
set of code changes that we package up
and put a label on that's all probably
relating to some kind of category, some kind
of big fix to our code. And we
can think about git as representing this whole
history of commits that represents sort of like
our version history. And then we have this
thing called the head pointer basically represents where
in where our current working directory that is,
like, our Versus Code window is representing. So
if our head pointer is at the top
most commit, that means that whatever we're looking
at in our Versus Code is the most
recent commit, this styling comments blog with CSS,
the most recent version. So how do we
add a new commit? Let's say we want
to add a commit to add the post
comments functionality. Then we're going to make all
of our code changes in our various files,
and then if we're thinking about commitment, we're
going to git add, and then the file
path for the files and the changes, we
wanna add to our staging area. We do
git add with our files, those changes get
added to the staging area, and then add
whatever other files we wanna add. And then
once we're ready to commit, we'll do git
commit with a certain commit message. Those get
boxed up and added to our commit history.
So that's a brief recap of how commits
work. Yeah? Gosh, dang it. Alright. Whatever. I
guess I can't walk around. That's sad. Alright.
I will make sure that on Zoom I'll
just go like that. Okay. So we just
committed and then now recall that we also
were talking about git commit as this object
graph representation where each commit is represented by
a circle, also known as, like, representing a
version of our code. And each commit has
an ID, which is some big long string
of characters, and then a message, which is
what the commit is about. So now we're
gonna briefly review branching that we talked about
on Monday. So the basic scenario that we
were talking about with why we need branching
is, let's say Tony is working on implementing
a new feature for his app, and then
Andrew says, oh, can you help me fix
this bug on the original homepage? And he's
like, oh, okay. Then he has to move
and start working on that. And then I
come along and I'm like, Tony, we need
this feature tomorrow and you have to do
it right now. And then he has to
change what he's working on. So he needs
to work on all of these different things
at once. And so if we didn't have
branching, let's say task a, b, and c
are the things he has to do, he's
making his code changes, making his commits for
task a, then Andrew comes along, he has
to make some more commits for this task,
and then more and more, And then I
come along and he has to start working
on this and then he keeps adding commits,
working on all these different tasks and it's
kind of a little bit of a mess.
But then here's the problem. I come along
and I'm like, hey, there's this bug on
WebLab Tinder on task c. Where did it
come from? And he has to look through
his commit history to figure out when in
the versions this bug got introduced. The only
problem is, in real life, these tasks are
not color coded. All of the commits look
exactly the same. And so he's looking and
he's looking and he's really sad. So what
we need is a way to isolate working
on one task versus another versus another. But
then once you finish a task and have
a version of the code that you like,
being able to merge those things back together.
So that's why we need branching and merging.
So now I'm gonna show you an example
of a merge. And there's a couple things
that can happen when you merge. One is
that you merge really smoothly and it works
great. So I'll show you a quick example.
Let's say this is my git demo folder
and I am going to I have this
thing that says Abby is wearing a party
hat and I'm going to create a new
branch. I'll do git checkout dash b. You'll
be using this command a lot in your
projects. New hat or something. And so now
I'm on the branch, new hat, and you
can see that because it says it here.
So now I'm gonna make some changes and
save them. Git status to see yep, I
modified this. I'll do git add dash a,
that adds everything, all of the changes I've
made. And git commit dash m birthday, whatever
I wanna call it. And now I'm done
making my changes in my new hop branch,
and I want to merge these changes into
my main branch. So I'm going to do
checkout back to main, And notice that now
that my head pointer is at main, I
no longer see the changes that I had
made in my branch. But now I'm going
to do git merge, and then what did
I call this branch? New hat. Yay. That's
amazing. It just merged the branches that I
made in new hat, the commits, into my
main branch. Now I see the change here
and it says it merged successfully. Great. This
is a smooth merge. But what happens when
the merge isn't quite so smooth? I'm going
to do git checkout a new branch. Let's
call it bucket hat. And then on my
new brands, I'm gonna make some changes that
actually conflict with the changes that I have
in main. So I'm gonna say Abby's wearing
a bucket hat instead, like this. So now
I'm going to check out back to Main
and try and oh, wait, wait, sorry. I
need to check out back to bucket hat
and make sure I have committed something. Okay.
So git status, git add my change, git
commit. Okay. So now I've committed this change
on Buckethat, and we can see it. And
then I'm going to go back to main
and try and merge the changes from Buckethat
into main. You'll notice that main still says
Abby is wearing a party hat. So I'm
going to git merge bucket hat, gonna merge
the changes from bucket hat into main, and
oh, why did that work? That was not
supposed to work. Oh, I think I accidentally
edited the thing on main. Okay. Well, either
way, for the sake of time, I'm not
going to do another example for the merge
conflict, but basically what happens is if I
have a something conflicting when I merge it
in, then I'm going to get this error
message that says, oh, no, merge conflict. Fix
the changes and then commit the result. And
so I need to go into my editor,
manually choose what I wanna change and what
wanna keep, whether it's the version from main
branch or the version from my new branch,
and then close out the editor and then
merge those things together manually. So that's what
happens when there is a merge conflict. Okay.
Now I'm going to go into talking a
little bit more about how we use remote
because this is going to be very important
for your projects. Earlier, we talked about how
we have a local copy of the code
that I'm working on, and we have a
copy of the code that's on the remote
server, in this case, GitHub. This is where
our code is hosted. And if Tony wants
to work with me on this code, he's
going to have to use git clone. So
he clones, and now he has a local
copy the code of the whole repo on
his computer. Now Tony's going to make his
changes, git add, git commit, etcetera, so that
he's editing the code. Then he uses git
push to push the commit that he made
here onto remote. And then if I want
to see what kinds of changes he made,
I'm gonna do git pull, and it will
take any new commits that are on remote
that I don't have and bring them over
to my side of things. So the basic
workflow, if you're just doing a very simple
remote workflow, working on one singular branch, is
anytime you start working pull, always, always, always,
always pull. And then you're gonna work on
stuff, you're gonna add, you're gonna make your
commits, and then you need to pull again
to make sure that nothing changed on the
remote server in the meantime while you're working.
And then once you've successfully merged any changes
in, then you can push everything back to
the remote server, and now everything will be
up to date and clean. So that's one
way, the most simple way to work with
remote. But the more sophisticated way to work
with remote, and this is how I would
recommend doing for your projects and how you'll
definitely be doing in any industry setting, is
using branches. So let's say that Tony is
working here and his copy of the code
of main is up to date with remote,
and he's going to make a local branch.
He's gonna call it WebLab Tinder, and he's
making a branch, but it only exists on
his local side. It doesn't exist on remote
yet. And so he makes a commit. And
then he's going to do git push. I'll
try that. Oh, shoot. He got cock blocked.
What happened? It says, the current branch has
no upstream branch. Push the current branch, it's
not the remote as upstream. Use git push
set upstream origin new branch. Okay. What the
heck does that mean? What this means is
this concept of upstream basically means that every
branch, when you git clone, basically has this
little link that git keeps track of that
says, oh, this branch that I'm working on
on local corresponds to this branch on remote.
And there's this link between the two so
that when you do git push, git knows,
oh, I'm gonna move this to this particular
part of remote. But since Tony just created
this new branch, WebLab Tinder, it doesn't have
one of these little links to it, to
something on remote. So what he's going to
do is he'll do git push set upstream
origin, which just means remote, and then whatever
he wants to call his new branch on
remote. So let's say he wants to call
it Tinder. It can be the same name,
it can be different, doesn't matter. But now
that he called git push with this set
upstream flag, now git knows, okay, I'm going
to set up a link between this web
web Tinder branch that I have locally and
the Tinder branch that I'm now creating on
the remote server. So now he's making his
commits, he's doing his stuff, more stuff, and
then now he can do git push. And
since this connection exists, git will know, okay,
I'm gonna take these commits and move them
to the Tinder branch on remote. And now
once Tony's like, okay, WebLog Tinder is ready,
we're all set to go, he wants to
merge it back into main. So how do
we do that? Well, he's going to check
out to main to make sure that he
is currently looking at the main branch. Because
remember, if you wanna merge a branch into
main, you need to be on main and
then merge the other branch in. And so
he's going to type in the command git
merge weblab tinder. He fixes any merge conflicts
that arise, does whatever he needs to do,
and now there's this new merge commit that
he has locally that merges whatever he's merges
all of the commits he made with weblab
tinder into the old version of Nate. Putting
them together, great. And now he wants to
push this to remote because remote has to
get merged too, GitHub, etcetera. He's like, I'm
so excited to publish WebLab Tinder. It's almost
done. Now I can be done with this
weird project. And so he does git push.
And oh, no. He got cog blocked again.
What happened? Here it says updates were rejected
because the remote contains work that you do
not have locally. This is usually caused by
another repository pushing to the same ref. You
may want to first integrate the remote changes,
e d git pull, before pushing a git.
Okay. What does this mean? Well, it says
the remote contains work that he doesn't have
locally. That probably means that there were commits
on remote, on GitHub, that he doesn't have
in his local copy. So he's like, what
what what just happened? Why did I get
Cockblocked? So he does git fetch and that
basically looks at remote, checks what's going on,
updates what he has locally to match it,
and he realizes, oh, there's a new command
sorry, a new commit on remote that Abby
had made and pushed onto remote main while
he was working on his web dot Tinder
that he didn't realize was there. So now
he has to take care of taking this
commit that he that that was in remote
here and somehow merging that into his own
diagram. So what he's going to do is
he's going to be on his local main,
so his computer, and he's going to do
git pull. That's gonna take the commit that
he doesn't have yet locally and merge it
into the main branch of his local repo.
And then he might need to fix some
merge conflicts, do some stuff, whatever. And then
once that's successfully merged, now that the bottom
of his object graph looks the same as
the bottom of the remote object graph, now
he's finally ready to make the merge of
WebLab Tinder public on the GitHub remote server.
So he does git push, and it finally
works. He's happy. Okay. And then also good
practice is once you've successfully merged all your
changes in, just delete that local branch. So
once you merge this in, GitHub will automatically
delete this branch on remote for you. But
locally, you might still have this web Tinder
branch, and it's a good practice to just
delete it once you're done merging that feature
that you were working on on that branch
into the main branch. Okay. This slide, I
won't go into in super detail. You don't
need to read it all right now, but
this is gonna be good reference for you
when you're going through your project that basically,
if you wanna add a new feature, one
of the best workflows is to create a
local branch, create a new local branch, do
some work, whatever you need to, and then
create a remote branch that corresponds to our
local branch, setting up that link. Then, you
know, continue doing it or making whatever changes
you need to. Then when you're ready to
merge your branch, you're going to need to
git pull, make sure you always, always, always
pull, make that merge commit, and then we
push the merge commit from local to remote.
Okay. Just a side addendum is that what
we just did is we had this merge
commit. So Tony had his branch, he made
a merge commit here, and then he pushed
that merge commit to remote main. This will
work fine for our projects, but in any
industry setting, when you're actually doing software engineering,
you would not be doing this. Because typically
sorry. Typically, when we're in an industry setting,
we as a regular entry level software engineer
or intern or whatever, don't have access to
push anything, even a merge commit, to remote
main. Because everyone's working on remote main, all
of the developers. If we mess something up
on there, it's kinda screwed. So what we
would typically do in an industry setting is
instead of merging and then pushing the merge
commit, make sure that the remote branch has
whatever commits that we want it to have,
and then we do git pull origin main
to make sure that any new changes from
main on remote are pulled into our branch.
This is to avoid any unnecessary merge conflicts
and things. And then make sure that our
branch matches whatever changes were made to RemoteMain,
and then we do something called a pull
request. So this is going online on, like,
GitHub or whatever software that your company uses,
and then it's basically a request to your
manager or whoever's in charge, whoever has admin
permissions on the repo, to merge this branch
of changes that I made, in this case,
WebBot Tinder, into RemoteMain. So it's just an
online interface where the manager or other software
developers can review your code, check it off,
okay, that looks good, and then GitHub will
automatically merge it for you. So that's how
you would do things in an industry setting.
And then we would go back to our
local, git pull, and then we have everything
that is on remote. And then, of course,
we want to delete our branches. Okay. This
is a reference for the workflow that we
would do if we were in an industry
setting. And now we're just going to briefly
do a little addendum on a tool that
you will use probably many, many, many times
throughout your projects, and that is Gitstash. It's
also useful for the workshops. So let's say
that Tony is working on his code and
this is in, like, dotted lines because he
hasn't committed this yet. He's just making some
code, some changes in his Versus code. He
hasn't staged or committed anything. He's just got
his changes in his Versus code. But let's
say he wants to git checkout main. Let's
say he wants to go back and see,
oh, what was how do we do that
in the main branch again? What did I
change there? Something like that. He wants to
just check it. And then, oh, he got
cock blocked again. What happened? So it says,
your local changes to the following files will
be overwritten by checkout, and then whatever this
file is. Please commit your changes or stash
them, oh, what does that mean, before you
switch branches. So basically what git realizes is
that if he checked out to main, then
that moves the head pointer to main. What
does that mean? Well, head pointer basically just
says, where in my git object graph is
my current v s code, like, state of
the files representing? So if he checked out
to main, that would change all of the
files in his v s code to match
whatever this last commit on main is, which
means that all of the changes that he
made and didn't commit would just be wiped
out forever. Git knows that you probably don't
wanna wipe out changes if you were working
on stuff, and so that's why it gave
him that error message. So what he can
do instead is git stash, and that takes
all of these changes that he used to
have that he didn't commit or anything, that
he had just in his editor, and it's
almost like it sticks it off in a
box to the side. And it's just like,
okay, I'm gonna hold on to it. And
now head represents whatever the last committed version
was. And now he can git checkout main,
he can check out whatever other branches he
wants, he can change up whatever's going on
in his Versus code, look at this, look
at that, anything he wants to do. He
can even pull from from remote if he
realizes there was stuff in remote that he
needed that he didn't have. And then once
he's ready to bring those changes back and
keep working on it, he does git stash
pop and that will take the changes that
he was making before out of the little
box and reimplement them straight into his Versus
Code editor. So he can just pick up
right where he was working before. So git
stash, then doing whatever you want, and then
git stash pop allows you to hold on
to changes that you're working on but haven't
committed or anything yet. What about the orange
circle? Between the second yellow circle and the
orange circle. So it's basically like, tell me
if this answers your question. So basically, what
happens is if he pulls so he had
his head here, then he stashed all of
his current working changes, and now he's pulling
from origin main. So basically, this just takes
whatever changes, whatever updates were made, and applies
them to the version of the code that
he has currently. That might cause some merge
conflicts depending on if this is different than
this, but he can just resolve those merge
conflicts, figure it out, and then git stash
pop will just take those changes that he
had made before and apply them to this
version of the code. Yeah. Got it. Okay.
Workflow is good. Yes. Question? We wouldn't call
it merge conflicts per se because it's not
merging, but it's a good question. So if
you pop off of the stash and that
makes some changes that are different from what
was in the orange circle, then it would
overwrite the changes that were in the orange
circle because that's as if we had the
orange circle and then we just went in
and edited things. Cool. So basic workflow, git
Stash, do whatever you want, git Stash pop.
Okay. I am, for the sake of time,
not going to go over the recap. But
a couple recommendations. There's this website called Learn
Git Branching, which is like a kind of
gamified Git practice website that is pretty nice.
And we also have there's a Git cheat
sheet that you can look at if you
want to reference commands. Also, just in general,
I literally just stack overflow. I have to
look up the commands for anything anytime I
do it, but you just like, how to
do this on Git? And then it'll just
tell you. Okay. Last bit of feedback for
today. If you could take one minute to
fill this out and then we'll move into
final announcements.